README.md, before:

# tar_scm (OBS source service) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/openSUSE/obs-service-tar_scm.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/openSUSE/obs-service-tar_scm)

This is the git repository for [openSUSE:Tools/obs-service-tar_scm](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/openSUSE:Tools/obs-service-tar_scm).
The authoritative source is:

* https://github.com/openSUSE/obs-service-tar_scm

The files in this top-level directory are installed at the following
locations:

    tar_scm.config  -> /etc/obs/services/tar_scm
    tar_scm         -> /usr/lib/obs/service/tar_scm
    tar_scm.service -> /usr/lib/obs/service/tar_scm.service

## Test suite

Run the test suite via:

    python tests/test.py

The output may become easier to understand if you uncomment the
'failfast' option in `test.py`.  This requires Python 2.7, however.
You may also find that the buffered STDOUT from test failures gets
displayed to the screen twice - once before the test failure (and
corresponding stacktrace), and once after; in which case just grep for
/^FAIL: / in the output and start reading from there.

Note that for each test, a fresh svn/git/hg/bzr repository is created,
and tar_scm is invoked one *or more* times in a faked-up OBS source
service environment.  Whenever tar_scm invokes the VCS for which its
functionality is being tested, through modification of `$PATH` it
actually invokes `scm-wrapper`, which logs the VCS invocation before
continuing.

## Contributions

N.B. pull requests are very welcome, but will not be accepted unless
they contain corresponding additions/modifications to the test suite.
Test suite bit-rot is the path to gloom and despair :-)

Many thanks in advance!

Commit message:

add hint about running tests quicker

README.md, after:

# tar_scm (OBS source service) [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/openSUSE/obs-service-tar_scm.png?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/openSUSE/obs-service-tar_scm)

This is the git repository for [openSUSE:Tools/obs-service-tar_scm](https://build.opensuse.org/package/show/openSUSE:Tools/obs-service-tar_scm).
The authoritative source is:

* https://github.com/openSUSE/obs-service-tar_scm

The files in this top-level directory are installed at the following
locations:

    tar_scm.config  -> /etc/obs/services/tar_scm
    tar_scm         -> /usr/lib/obs/service/tar_scm
    tar_scm.service -> /usr/lib/obs/service/tar_scm.service

## Test suite

Run the test suite via:

    python tests/test.py

The output may become easier to understand if you uncomment the
'failfast' option in `test.py`.  This requires Python 2.7, however.
You may also find that the buffered STDOUT from test failures gets
displayed to the screen twice - once before the test failure (and
corresponding stacktrace), and once after; in which case just grep for
/^FAIL: / in the output and start reading from there.

If you want to narrow the tests being run, to speed up testing during
development, just temporarily tweak test.py as directed by the
comments.  In the future we should move to a better test framework
which provides a decent CLI whilst allowing flexibility over how the
test suite is built.  However it would still have to work on Python
2.6, for the benefit of older distributions such as SLE 11.

Note that for each test, a fresh svn/git/hg/bzr repository is created,
and tar_scm is invoked one *or more* times in a faked-up OBS source
service environment.  Whenever tar_scm invokes the VCS for which its
functionality is being tested, through modification of `$PATH` it
actually invokes `scm-wrapper`, which logs the VCS invocation before
continuing.

## Contributions

N.B. pull requests are very welcome, but will not be accepted unless
they contain corresponding additions/modifications to the test suite.
Test suite bit-rot is the path to gloom and despair :-)

Many thanks in advance!
