TESTING.md, before:

# `tar_scm` testing

## Unit tests

Run the unit test suite via:

    export PYTHONPATH=.    # or absolute path to repo
    python2 tests/test.py

The output may become easier to understand if you uncomment the
'failfast' option in `test.py`.  This requires Python 2.7, however.
You may also find that the buffered `STDOUT` from test failures gets
displayed to the screen twice - once before the test failure (and
corresponding stacktrace), and once after; in which case just grep for
`/^FAIL: /` in the output and start reading from there.

If you want to narrow the tests being run, to speed up testing during
development, you can provide command-line arguments:

    # only run the 'plain' and 'subdir' git tests
    python2 tests/test.py test_plain test_subdir

    # run all git tests matching the regexp /subdir/
    python2 tests/test.py /subdir/

Currently this filtering only applies to the git tests, but you can
easily tweak `test.py` to change that.

Note that for each test, a fresh `svn`/`git`/`hg`/`bzr` repository is
created, and `tar_scm` is invoked one *or more* times in a faked-up
OBS source service environment.  Whenever `tar_scm` invokes the VCS
for which its functionality is being tested, through modification of
`$PATH` it actually invokes `scm-wrapper`, which logs the VCS
invocation before continuing.

### Persistence between test runs

The test fixtures create working directories for each test
representing a (fake) check-out of a build service package, and each
test invokes `tar_scm` on this working directory.  The directory
persists between tests to simulate real world use.

Similarly, a fake `$HOME` directory is created, in which source
repositories may be cached upon cloning from the (fake) upstream
repository, and again, this `$HOME` directory is persisted between
tests in order to simulate real world use.

All these directories can be found under `tests/tmp/`.

Upon a successful test run, these persisted directories are cleaned
up.  However, if the run fails, they are left behind for debugging.
In this case, you may need to `rm -rf tests/tmp` prior to the next
test run, otherwise you may get errors like `Invalid revision range`
when a brand new repository history is constructed which conflicts
with the previous run.

## PEP8 checking

There's also a `pep8` rule for checking
[PEP8](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) compliance:

    make pep8

## Running all tests.

You can run both sets of tests together via:

    make check

Commit message:

fix Makefile test runner for Debian
Partially addresses breakage introduced by #54.

On Debian, python2 isn't in the $PATH, so falling back to python-2.x
or python should work.

See also https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=634967

TESTING.md, after:

# `tar_scm` testing

## Unit tests

Run the unit test suite via:

    export PYTHONPATH=.    # or absolute path to repo
    python2 tests/test.py

(If your distribution does not have `python2` in your `$PATH` then
adjust the executable name accordingly.)

The output may become easier to understand if you uncomment the
'failfast' option in `test.py`.  This requires Python 2.7, however.
You may also find that the buffered `STDOUT` from test failures gets
displayed to the screen twice - once before the test failure (and
corresponding stacktrace), and once after; in which case just grep for
`/^FAIL: /` in the output and start reading from there.

If you want to narrow the tests being run, to speed up testing during
development, you can provide command-line arguments:

    # only run the 'plain' and 'subdir' git tests
    python2 tests/test.py test_plain test_subdir

    # run all git tests matching the regexp /subdir/
    python2 tests/test.py /subdir/

Currently this filtering only applies to the git tests, but you can
easily tweak `test.py` to change that.

Note that for each test, a fresh `svn`/`git`/`hg`/`bzr` repository is
created, and `tar_scm` is invoked one *or more* times in a faked-up
OBS source service environment.  Whenever `tar_scm` invokes the VCS
for which its functionality is being tested, through modification of
`$PATH` it actually invokes `scm-wrapper`, which logs the VCS
invocation before continuing.

### Persistence between test runs

The test fixtures create working directories for each test
representing a (fake) check-out of a build service package, and each
test invokes `tar_scm` on this working directory.  The directory
persists between tests to simulate real world use.

Similarly, a fake `$HOME` directory is created, in which source
repositories may be cached upon cloning from the (fake) upstream
repository, and again, this `$HOME` directory is persisted between
tests in order to simulate real world use.

All these directories can be found under `tests/tmp/`.

Upon a successful test run, these persisted directories are cleaned
up.  However, if the run fails, they are left behind for debugging.
In this case, you may need to `rm -rf tests/tmp` prior to the next
test run, otherwise you may get errors like `Invalid revision range`
when a brand new repository history is constructed which conflicts
with the previous run.

## PEP8 checking

There's also a `pep8` rule for checking
[PEP8](http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/) compliance:

    make pep8

## Running all tests.

You can run both sets of tests together via:

    make check
